=============
Status update
=============

:Author:   Paolo Besser
:Date:     2006-09-15

Aros.org localization continues. Samuel Atlan is working on his `French
translation`__ of our website. It will take some time to complete, but
first pages are already available from the top left menu. Please notice also
a new feature of aros.org: now you can reach localized pages by adding your
national prefix to standard url. For instance, you may find the Italian home
page using *www.aros.org/it*, the russian one with *www.aros.org/ru* and
so on.

__ /fr/

AROS in the news
----------------

Please read this nice `review`__ Dmitar Butrovski has written on
`OSnews.com`__. It's clearly one of the most complete articles about
AROS, covering every feature and each side of our nice operating system.
If you don't already know exactly what AROS is, you may get a good
idea.

__ https://www.osnews.com/story/15819/aros-onboard-the-last-train-to-amiga-neverland/
__ https://www.osnews.com/

Software
--------

The new 1.20 version of the famous Commodore 8-bit computers line
emulator *VICE* is available for all Amiga platforms, AROS included. You
may find it here *(dead link removed)*.

*WinAros* is a preinstalled AROS environment installed on a HD image,
compatible with famous virtual machines QEMU and Microsoft VirtualPC,
both freely available on the net. You may download QEMU Winaros here *(dead link removed)*
and the VirtualPC one here *(dead link removed)*. Heinz-Raphael Reinke has also written a
complete AROS installation on hard disk *(dead link removed)* guide in PDF format.  If you
prefer, there is also a German version *(dead link removed)*. You need Adobe Acrobat
Reader, FoxIt Reader or aPDF/xPDF to read them. 

*Installation Kit for AROS (IKAROS)* is a set of virtual disk images for
different virtualisers, including QEMU and VMware, already partitioned,
formatted, and ready to install AROS on. Its benefits are its small archive
size, as it doesn't include large amount of files, and the possbility to
install fresh AROS versions, which make it useful for testing the
nightly builds. It allows easy installation of new versions without
messing with partition setup. Installation instructions included.
Please check `Aros-Exec`__ for recent updates.


__ https://archives.arosworld.org/?function=showfile&file=emulation/misc/arosik02.zip
