====================
2017 to 2019 Summary
====================

:Author:   Nick Andrews, Matthias Rustler
:Date:     2020-01-01


Github migration
----------------

As a new year begins, its time to reflect on some of the things that have
happened since the last news entry - which is a shocking 3 years ago!
Firstly, the main AROS development has now migrated to `GitHub`__. It has
been a controversial decision/move but in the long run is better for
the developer community, and AROS as a whole. Along with this has been
the migration of the nightly builds to use Azure Pipelines, so that as a
developer team we can all contribute to the maintenance/monitoring and fault
resolution that is frequently needed in a project such as AROS, and in a
more timely manner. You can find details about GIT usage in our `documentation`__.

__ https://github.com/aros-development-team
__ /documentation/developers/git.html


SMP
---

There's an experimental version of AROS x86_64 which can make use of multiple
CPU cores. The scheduling code was rewritten to enable it by sharing a common
task list of waiting tasks to run, and allowing the tasks to specify which
core they can run on. Exec and other core components have been adapted to
properly lock access to resources they use so that tasks running on other
cores can safely access some things.


m68k
----

For a long time the m68k port has played only a minor role. This has changed
recently because of the `Vampire turbo cards`__ where AROS will be the standard
operating system. Various improvements have been done for the graphics drivers,
the screen composition, ATA device, keyboard handling, MMU support etc.

__ http://www.apollo-core.com/


Raspberry Pi
------------

Some progress has been made on the port for the `card-sized computer`__. An USB
driver has been written and a big-endian target has been added.

__ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi


AHCI Device
-----------

The source code of the `AHCI`__ device has been refactored to work more
similarly to ATA device, exposing HIDD controller/bus/unit classes that can
be viewed in SysExplorer.

__ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Host_Controller_Interface


Build System
------------

A massive amount of refactoring has been done to make sure only the correct
flags are used when building components, and to make sure flags are used
consistently. It has been made sure object files from different components
don't pollute each other when they are made in the same mmakefile. Changes 
have been made to allow modules to be built for different flavours (e.g. cpu
types) of a target. The flags used when compiling c++/objc code have been
cleaned up.
