=============
Status Update
=============

:Author:   Paolo Besser
:Date:     2007-10-01

Latest news
-----------

Breaking News! Neil Cafferkey has committed a brand new installer *(dead link removed)* 
for AROS, allowing a cleaner and safer installation on hard disks. 
New features are the following:

- Installation drive and partitions can now be specified.
- Creation of Work partition now works.
- Partition sizes can now be specified and existing partitions can be preserved.
- Windows now added to GRUB boot menu if a likely Windows system partition is found
- Locale can be set during the installation


Please notice, however, that this is still beta software. Here are 
some warnings from Neil: "The new HD installer is now included on the 
nightly ISO and is ready for testing. However, there's currently a bug 
in either Wanderer or FFS that needs to be worked around. After starting 
the installer, you need to quit Wanderer before continuing (unless 
you're not going to format any partitions).
Be even more careful than usual with this version of the installer, ie. 
don't expose a machine with unbacked-up valuable data to it. It should 
preserve all existing partitions if requested, but no one has tested 
this so far besides me."

If you have a test machine with no important data on it, you'd be very
smart downloading 10-01 nightly build (or later) and help us finding 
bugs. You may use the Bug Tracker or post a message in this AROS-Exec 
discussion *(dead link removed)*. 


Demonstrating AROS
------------------

As previously anticipated on this website, AROS has been a guest 
star of Pianeta Amiga 2007 *(dead link removed)*. During the popular Amiga show, 
Paolo Besser has presented AROS to a niche of interested Amiga 
fellows. The event has been anticipated by some important IT news
sites like TGM Online *(dead link removed)* and `HW Upgrade`__. A report of the 
show has been published by The AROS Show *(dead link removed)* (read it here *(dead link removed)*). You may 
also see a nice video *(dead link removed)* on YouTube.

AROS Worldwide
--------------

Our website have got some new documentation translations - namely, to Greek (by
Ioannis Koniaris), Spanish (by Ariel Gomez) and Czech (by Petr Novak), with
usual and necessary help from Neil Cafferkey. Swedish (by Jon Anderson) and 
Russian (by Softy) translation updates coming soon. Also more updates in more 
languages are coming (by... you?). 

__ https://gaming.hwupgrade.it/news/videogiochi/presentazione-italiana-per-l-os-indipendente-aros_22619-0.html
